[Music]
we are still in search of
worlds where life could be found every
day
scientists find more and more
potentially habitable worlds in april
2021 astronomers discovered a super
earth
exoplanet and a bunch of other possible
habitable
exoplanets and now we're going to show
you
what they found so get ready as we
explore these new found
alien worlds we've got gas giants to
show you
where life could be hiding in their
clouds and a weird
neptune-like planet that could be the
best candidate
for finding life yet
for the last 25 years astronomers have
been finding a wide variety of
exoplanets made out of rock ice
and gas the kepler spacecraft launched
in 2009
and monitored 155 000 stars in just one
small patch of the milky way
its mission to look for tiny dips in
starlight
caused by an exoplanet passing in front
of its star
by the time the spacecraft ran out of
fuel in october of 2018
it had found 4 000 candidate worlds
among those stars that could be
earth-like
a new analysis of data from the kepler
spacecraft
just doubled the number of habitable
exoplanets believed to exist in our
galaxy
there are at least 100 billion stars in
the milky way
and 4 billion of those are sun-like
if you figured only seven percent of
those stars have some habitable planet
floating around it
that's 300 million potentially habitable
earths
in the milky way anyone remember luke
skywalker's harsh desert home planet
tatuni that had two sons well
researchers in may 2021
re-analyzed some kepler space telescope
data
and discovered not one but five star
wars style
double sun systems that could have one
planet each
that support life in some form or
another
this time researchers were looking for
earth-like planets with
water somewhere on their surface so they
looked at the mass of the binary stars
how bright they were how big and how
close they were to planets in the system
researchers now say they found a planet
in one of these systems
that's cool enough to have liquid water
on its surface
it's in the system kepler 38 about 3970
light years from earth
has a star like ours and another smaller
star that orbits it
this system is the best candidate for
hosting an earth-like world with oceans
so far a neptune-sized planet has been
found orbiting the largest star
and there might be more planets in its
habitable zone we don't know about yet
very recently astronomers discovered
another exoplanet
some 90 light years away from earth that
was a big surprise
another neptune-like world was
discovered with an atmosphere that could
have clouds containing water
toi 1231b is a bit larger than earth
but a bit smaller than neptune it's
eight times closer to its star than our
planet is to the sun
the surface temperature was measured to
be about 60 degrees celsius
even though it's too big to be habitable
it's the coolest exoplanet ever found
and will be a perfect target for the
study of exoplanet atmospheres
by the way we've heard some strange new
things that have been discovered
on the ice giants uranus and neptune
if you want to hear more about that then
sound off in the comments
it's true that most of the super earth
exo planets
we find and call habitable end up being
too hot to support life
a good example of this is a planet
orbiting the star gliese 486
it's a hot rocky super earth with a mass
of 2.8 times of our home planet and it's
30 percent bigger
the problem is that this super earth has
a temperature of 700 kelvin
however even though it's so hot this
planet has kept part of its original
atmosphere
and that was discovered using transit
photometry and radial velocity
spectroscopy
another example of a scorched super
earth was just discovered 36 light years
from earth named
gj740b it's a potentially rocky world
that has a mass of 2.9 earths and takes
2.4 days to orbit its star
a red dwarf that can't be seen from
earth however this planet is no place to
call home
with temperatures as high as 829 kelvin
and the surface probably looks a lot
like venus
it seems like finding exoplanets that
could have life is turning out to be a
tough search
and there are more gas and ice giant
exoplanets being found than terrestrial
planets
this is because gas and ice giants are
easier to find
by the tidal doppler shifts on their
parent stars from gravitational pull
but they're also more easily seen during
transits
because of their size and caused the
light spectrum to curve and dip a lot
more than a smaller rocky planet like
the earth
[Music]
is it possible we could find life on one
of these gas giants
if we're going to look for life we
shouldn't limit our search to earth-like
planets
and gas giants shouldn't be ignored
either
carl sagan and stephen hawking both
theorize that life could exist in
atmospheres of gas giants
and out of the thousands of exoplanet
candidates discovered by kepler
the most common of those are hot
jupiter-like exoplanets that orbit very
close to their parent star
but these are gas planets we're talking
about with no solid surface that would
allow any earth-like life to exist
but is it possible that some kind of
extremophile
a creature like a tardigrade could be
living in the clouds of a gas planet
gas giants are mainly composed of
hydrogen and helium
and even though it might sound
far-fetched it might be just possible
that life could evolve in the upper
atmosphere of a gas giant
the debate of whether life could exist
in the toxic clouds of venus
is still far from over scientists had
detected the chemical phosphine in the
thick
venetian atmosphere and researchers were
saying that something now alive
is the only explanation as the source of
the chemical
could gas planets have the same
possibility
chances are good that if we find life it
will be totally different than we expect
life forms on a gas planet could survive
on electrical energy from lighting
storms
could get water from vapor in the air
and be able to filter water out of the
air they breathe
or it could even be some type of
airborne bacteria
that doesn't need to breathe at all
eliminating the need for oxygen
but there is also the possibility of
finding a gas planet that's made up of
breathable air of course this life form
would need to deal with the extreme
pressure of living on a gas giant
and there are some big gas giants that
have been found
astronomers found a super gas giant
roughly five times heavier than jupiter
about 1300 light years from earth
they named the gas giant got em1b
which stands for giant outer transiting
exoplanet mass
and we're finding a lot more planets
like this each day
but going over and reanalyzing old data
from the kepler spacecraft
isn't all we've got going for us when it
comes to finding exoplanets
there's another telescope out there the
successor to kepler
and it's finding tons of new exoplanets
it's called
tess and it launched aboard a spacex
falcon 9 rocket back in april 2018.
right now tess is our best and most
adept planet finder
and it's found more than 2 200 candidate
planets orbiting bright stars
and hundreds of those could be rocky
worlds similar to earth
now a new era in the study of exoplanets
is just beginning
using a technique called transmission
spectroscopy scientists
should be able to use the hubble
telescope and soon the james webb space
telescope to capture starlight shining
through the atmosphere of toi
1231b molecules in this planet's
atmosphere will absorb slices of light
from this spectrum
leaving dark lines that can be read like
a barcode and tell us which gases are
present
when our new telescopes are finally up
and running we'll be able to discover
exactly what an exoplanet's atmosphere
is made of
and we'll be able to detect water vapor
as well as oxygen
which could mean life and by the way you
don't just need to be a nasa scientist
to find an exoplanet either
just recently in june 2021 a citizen
scientist
named cesar rubio discovered not one but
two gas planets that orbit around a
bright
sun-like star as part of a project that
nasa has called
planet hunters tess it's been in the
news a lot lately but the james webb
space telescope won't be the only
telescope going up
and out into space the upcoming roman
space telescope mission will probably
find another
100 000 new worlds as they transit
across their host star
and also use a method called
microlensing this is the first telescope
that will try to directly image
giant planets just think about it only a
few short decades ago we didn't know if
planets were common or rare around other
stars
with all these new discoveries we now
have evidence that our own galaxy is
filled with
other worlds and some of those worlds
might host life
and if you're interested in helping find
new planets you can check out
nasa's planet hunters website for all
the details
what did you think about the video do
you think we're gonna find life on
another planet soon
and if we do how do you think it's going
to affect the world let us know in the
comments and tell us what you'd like to
see next
thanks for watching
you